

Hi Nate, 

Here is a little rundown of my code. The makefile will run and compile both the Cholesky and Householder QR methods in one command. It will produce the .o, .exe. and .dat files are normal. The .dat files are for plotting the linear regressions with gnuplot. It will also produce 2 plots in png form one for the cholesky method and one for the qr method (chol.png, qr.png). If you have any issue viewing the plots please let me know. 

In order to make changes to the code, such as changing the order of the polynomial regression, please adjust the parameter "na" at the top of the Driver fortran file. This is essentially the number of columns of A, so if na = 5 the polynomial created will be an n-1 degree polynomial regression. 

If you would like to use gnuplot yourself the commands needed to reproduce the plot are as follows:
(in terminal)
-> gnuplot
(once in gnuplot)
-> plot "plot.dat" u 1:2, "regression.dat" u 1:2 w l

This should work even for other data files which you might create and test the code on. 

Note that the code currently reads data points from a file, and is hard coded to do a regression on 20 data points. Please change the parameters ma, mb, and so on if a different data set is used or if less or more data points are used. 

Oh and it doesn't check if the matrix is singular at all. Thats my bad. Next time I'm in office hours, can we talk about the best way to determine if a matrix is singular. Some thoughts are to take the determinant and see if it is below a threshold (which obviously has its own numerical stability issues), I could see if any one column or row is filled with machine precision zeros (but then there are cases where what if some zig-zagged arrange ment of zeros makes it singular) or the very very hardcoded and maybe well defined "check to see if the diagonal entries are zero after you finish LU or cholesky and if so the matrix was singular". None of them seem rationally sound or are very easy to do, so I've decidede to omit and perhaps resubmit with a well defined check singular function. 

If you have any questions, you know where to find me.
-Dante-

